- [Instructor] Now that we have created
a multi-node Swarm Mode cluster,
let's deploy some services to this cluster.
Well, what does it mean to deploy a service
to a multi-node Swarm Mode cluster?
There are two kinds of services.
One is a Replicated Service,
and another one is a Global Service.
Let's talk about Replicated Service first.
So, essentially, if you look at
the command on the bottom of the screen,
it says, "docker service create."
I'm creating a service, I want to create three replicas of it,
and I'm saying give it a name "--name web,"
and I want to take jboss/wildfly.
So that's my command to create a service
and three replicas of the wildfly container.
I'm using jboss/wildfly, but this could have been
any custom application that I care about.
And, once I give this command,
the Docker Swarm Mode manager looks at this request
and then distributes the containers
across the different workers or managers.
Remember, the manager, by itself, is a worker as well.
So you can configure the manger to be only a manager,
but, by default, the containers
can be deployed on a manager also.
Now, Swarm Mode has a load balancer.
Load balancing containers has been hard up until now
because you have to update the configuration of the
load balancers as containers are started or stopped.
They could be started and stopping on different nodes.
This is typically done by overriding the
configuration file of the load balancer and bouncing it,
or, by updating the configuration and the
distributed key values tool like Etcd.
That is tricky.
Docker now has built-in load balancing in the engine itself
using, very important, a container-aware routing mesh.
Let's understand what that means.
This mesh network can transparently read out
traffic from any host to a container.
For example, publishing a service on port 8080
will reserve a swarm-wide ingress port
so that each node will listen to port 8080.
Each node will then read out traffic to the container
using DNS-based service discovery.
This is actually very compatible with
the existing infrastructure as well.
External load balancer no longer need to know
where the containers are running,
they can just point towards any node,
and the routing mesh will automatically redirect traffic.
As a developer, this makes your life really easy.
Now, even though it introduces an extra hop,
it is still very efficient, since it uses IPVS.
Let's take a look.
I created my service
with three replicas,
and that is spread over three different nodes.
I set up my load balancer,
and the load balancer has all
five nodes in the cluster configured.
If a request goes to a node
where the container is not running,
then it is automatically rerouted to
a node where the container is running.
And, remember, we're using IPVS over there.
That makes the entire process very efficient.
It's just a single hop,
and it automatically identifies that.
Let's take a look at how this is in action.
I'm here in my terminal,
and, in my terminal, let's take a look at the
Docker Machine Swarm Mode Cluster that we created earlier.
I'm going to show you docker-machine ls
and we can see that all my machines are still running.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to ssh into manager1.
Our request needs to go to a manager,
ideally to the primary manager,
but it can go to a secondary manager,
which will then reroute the request to the primary.
So, to keep our use case simple, we'll just go to manager1.
Now, in here, I can say
docker service.
I'm going to "create" a service.
I'm going to give it a name "web."
I'm going have three replicas to it,
and I'm going to resolve the service to run on port 8080.
This will automatically reserve a swarm-wide ingress port
across all the nodes in the cluster.
And then I can say jboss/wildfly.
Now, I can run this command.
Now, if I look at
docker service ls,
essentially, what the previous command did is
it just created a service.
Docker Manager is going to figure out
where these containers need to run,
on which host these containers need to run.
Then, it's going to download the jboss/wildfly
image on those nodes,
it'll run the container,
it'll reserve the swarm-wide ingress port,
and then it'll say the service is ready for serving.
But, at this point, if I look at docker service ls
and that was really fast actually.
I was hoping to show you how it shows
zero replicas out of three replicas.
I shouldn't have waited that long.
It's a pretty fast internet connection.
So, here, you're seeing the service is created,
name is web, mode is replicated,
three replicas out of three, all are running.
Let's look at some more details.
I can say
docker service inspect,
and the service name is web,
so I can get more details about the service itself.
If we go up here,
you can see the service ID,
you can see when was it created, when was it updated,
you can get more specification for the service.
That is the image name, a particular MD5 checksum.
You can see the number of replicas.
You can see there's an ingress port here.
And other details.
Let's take a look at more details.
Remember, we are running three replicas of the service.
Now, service, the way it runs the replicas,
each replica is associated with a task,
and a task is essentially a container.
So I want to look at the different tasks of the service.
So I'm going to say
docker service ps web
And, in this case, says name is web.1,
web.2,
web.3,
and they're running, in this case, on manager3,
worker1, and worker2.
So a single command created three replicas of your service
spread across multiple nodes.
So, we're using one container, but across multiple hosts.
In a future section, we'll take a look at how we can run
a multi-container application on a multi-node cluster.